feat: add templates v1.0 blog post (#249)
arcus-azure/arcus: community/blog/2022-10 Arcus Templates v1.0 a major release with major features/README.md

# Arcus Templates v1.0: a major release with major features

> The Arcus Templates library is less prone to breaking changes as it does not provide code but starter projects. Because of this, major releases could be unnecessarily postponed. We decided to release Arcus Templates v1.0 as the number of features and changes is far too great for a minor release. Come see it for yourself in this run-down post of the release's highlights.

Reviewer: I think I'd use other wording here.
Maybe focus on the fact that Arcus Templates is mature enough for a v1 release ?

Something like:
```
Arcus Templates has been around for a while now and was previously published with version-number 0.x.x.  Since we have created multiple projects using these templates, we feel Arcus Templates is now mature enough to be released a as a production ready v1 release
```
or something ?

Author: Aha, ok, that does seem like a better approach. Mine was maybe a bit too technical. 👍 
Let's use your suggestion.

## Introducing isolated Azure Functions
Isolated Azure Functions is an alternative way for in-process Azure Functions. It runs the implementation as a separate process - hence, the name 'isolated'. This provides many benefits to the consumer. One of which is more control over the hosting capabilities of the function. For more information on the difference between the two, see [Microsoft's documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/dotnet-isolated-process-guide).

This release introduces a project option to configure the functions worker of our Azure Functions project templates. Both in-process and isolated are supported; until Microsoft decides to stop supporting the former. Currently, only the Azure Functions Service Bus topic project template (and the new EventHubs project template) are having this option but rest assured, soon the remaining templates will follow suit.

> The biggest difference in isolated projects is that the project will have a `Program` instead of a `Startup` file. The Azure Functions project acts like a regular .NET worker project, in this way. Different from the worker templates is that Arcus only registers the message router because the Azure Functions is the message pump for the Service Bus message. Here is a snippet from the `Program` file that shows how we can make use of the `ConfigureFunctionsWorkerDefaults` extension to register all the necessary messaging functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The biggest difference in isolated projects is that the project will have a `Program` instead of a `Startup` file. The Azure Functions project acts like a regular .NET worker project, in this way. Different from the worker templates is that Arcus only registers the message router because the Azure Function is the message pump for the Service Bus message. Here is a snippet from the `Program` file that shows how we can make use of the `ConfigureFunctionsWorkerDefaults` extension to register all the necessary messaging functionality.
```

```csharp
using Arcus.Security.Core.Caching.Configuration;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;

private static IHostBuilder CreateHostBuilder(string[] args)
{
    return Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
               .ConfigureFunctionsWorkerDefaults((context, builder) =>
               {
                   builder.Services.AddServiceBusMessageRouting()
                                   .WithServiceBusMessageHandler<OrdersAzureServiceBusMessageHandler, Order>();
               })
               .ConfigureSecretStore((config, stores) =>
               {
#if DEBUG
                   stores.AddConfiguration(config);
#endif
                   stores.AddAzureKeyVaultWithManagedIdentity("https://your-keyvault.vault.azure.net/", CacheConfiguration.Default);
               });
}
```

> The project will still have an `OrderFunction` file that receives Azure Service Bus messages from the topic subscription. The difference here is that [Microsoft doesn't yet support all Service Bus message metadata](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-service-bus-trigger?tabs=isolated-process%2Cextensionv5&pivots=programming-language-csharp) so we had to be creative to retrieve this. But, no worries, the project has all the necessary functionality to fully support Arcus Messaging. Your focus remains on the implementation of your message handlers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The project will still have an `OrderFunction` file that receives Azure Service Bus messages from the topic subscription. The difference here is that [Microsoft doesn't yet support all Service Bus message metadata](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-service-bus-trigger?tabs=isolated-process%2Cextensionv5&pivots=programming-language-csharp) so we had to be creative to retrieve this. But, no worries, the project has all the necessary functionality to fully support Arcus Messaging. Your focus can remain on the implementation of your message handlers.
```

EventHubs messaging is no exception.

We included in these new project templates a useful example of EventHubs messaging. Instead of using `Order` messages like the Service Bus project templates, we opt to create a sample message handler that received sensor readings.
```csharp
using Arcus.Messaging.Abstractions;
using Arcus.Messaging.Abstractions.EventHubs;
using Arcus.Messaging.Abstractions.EventHubs.MessageHandling;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;

public class SensorReadingAzureEventHubsMessageHandler : IAzureEventHubsMessageHandler<SensorReading>
{
    private readonly ILogger<SensorReadingAzureEventHubsMessageHandler> _logger;

    public SensorReadingAzureEventHubsMessageHandler(ILogger<SensorReadingAzureEventHubsMessageHandler> logger)
    {
        _logger = logger;
    }

public Task ProcessMessageAsync(
    SensorReading message,
    AzureEventHubsMessageContext messageContext,
    MessageCorrelationInfo correlationInfo,
    CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        _logger.LogInformation("Sensor reading processed!");

        return Task.CompletedTask;
    }
}
```

> Apart from this, the project's contents is very similar - if not identical: we use the Arcus Messaging EventHubs message pump in the .NET Worker project template and solely register the EventHubs message router in the Azure Functions variant. The message handler, too, is an exact copy in both templates which only shows the reusability of Arcus Messaging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apart from this, the project's contents are very similar - if not identical: we use the Arcus Messaging EventHubs message pump in the .NET Worker project template and solely register the EventHubs message router in the Azure Functions variant. The message handler, too, is an exact copy in both templates which only shows the re-usability of Arcus Messaging.
```

For more information on both templates, see our official documentation:
- [Arcus EventHubs worker project template](https://templates.arcus-azure.net/features/eventhubs-worker-template)
- [Azure Functions EventHubs trigger project template](https://templates.arcus-azure.net/features/azurefunctions-eventhubs-template)

> ## Finalizing Web API project template

Author: @pim-simons , wanted to include the small changes in the Azure Functions HTTP trigger in-process project template, but since we are moving towards isolated environments, it seemed a bit odd to add it here. But if you feel different, I'll add a section for this template, too. 👍

Reviewer 2: No worries, good decision I think, let's keep the update in the Azure Functions HTTP trigger in-process project template for a later post 👍🏻

> The Arcus Web API project template is the oldest and probably the most popular template in our library. It has already been used in several projects and has been improved with feedback to strengthen it for real-life scenarios. The Arcus Templates v1.0 release does not include groundbreaking changes but does however include two small interventions that increase usability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Arcus Web API project template is the oldest and probably the most popular template in our library. It has been used in several projects and has been improved with feedback to strengthen it for real-life scenarios. The Arcus Templates v1.0 release does not include groundbreaking changes but does however include two small interventions that increase usability.
```

Reviewer 2: By the way, not sure if 'interventions' is the right word to use?

Author: Maybe we could change it to: `The two small changes in the Web API project template are not groundbreaking but they do increase usability.`

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me 👍🏻

### Default HTTP port

> People are often eager to begin. Creating a project from a template energizes them. 'All the boilerplate code is already written!' The logical consequence is that people want to start the project as soon as possible, seeing how everything works together. The problem with the template before this release was that it did not contain a default HTTP port, so it could not be started out-of-the box. This port is usually not hard-coded and configured, but during development, it is nice to not have to worry about this thingy thing. That is why we added a default HTTP port that makes the project run directly after creation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
People are often eager to begin. Creating a project from a template energizes them. 'All the boilerplate code is already written!' The logical consequence is that people want to start the project as soon as possible, seeing how everything works together. The problem with the template before this release was that it did not contain a default HTTP port, so it could not be started out-of-the box. This port is usually not hard-coded and configured, but during development it is nice to not have to worry about these kind of trivial things. That is why we added a default HTTP port that makes the project run directly after creation.
```

Author: Hihi, yeah, that's better. Was looking for a good word. 😉
